# Insight_Memory_Effect
Data for manuscript investigating the Insight & Insight-realted better memory (Becker, Sommer, Cabeza, 2023)

Abstract:
Creative solutions often involve insight - a rapid reorganisation and integration of internal representations (representational change, RC) - triggering positive emotions, and a feeling of suddenness about the solution. This insight process is associated with a more profound memory consolidation but its neural basis remains unclear. Here, we propose that insight reflects sudden multivariate pattern changes associated with enhanced solution-relevant representations (RC) efficiently integrated into the solution process. This sudden conceptual update (RC) leads to awareness of the solution accompanied by an emotional and suddenness response in hippocampus and amygdala resulting in enhanced encoding of the solution. While under-going fMRI scanning, participants completed a visual task (Mooney images) whose solution is often accompanied by insight and participants’ memory for the solution was tested five days later. The study yielded four main findings. First, multivariate pattern analyses showed that when solving Mooney images was accompanied by insight, posterior fusiform gyrus (pFusG) and inferior lateral occipital cortex (iLOC) exhibited a sudden conceptual update and this information was more efficiently integrated into a network of solution-processing brain areas. Second, this network included amygdala and hippocampus who exhibited increased insight-related activity during solution. Third, this sudden conceptual update in pFusG and iLOC as well as anterior hippocampal activity predicted insight-related better memory. This is the first study providing direct empirical evidence for a plausible insight-related RC mechanism and its relationship to enhanced long-term memory formation. These findings highlight the importance of fostering insight-driven learning experiences as an effective way for problem-solving and knowledge retention.
s.
